# ELT-in-Azure-Data-Factory-for-Covid-19-data-set
## Project Overview 
The European center for prevention and disease control (ECDC) is an agency whose main focus is to address the defenses against infectious diseases. To do so, they perform many different activities including surveillance, response, epidemic intelligence, preparedness and health communications. It is their mission to identify and communicate any emerging threats to human health. Therefore, it is evident that the ECDC is a vital organization within our community that can improve our quality of life and can help us take precautions against deadly infections. The main data that is collected through the ECDC focuses on surveillance data on communicable diseases and related special health issues. This data is primarily collected from local and clinical laboratories and hospitals that are appointed by representatives in the member states.
 
As we know prevention is better than cure, this is an effort to help the management understand the pattern of rising COVID- 19 cases and its effects on Health care industry. The insights gained from the number of cases and deaths in different regions across Europe can very well help the healthcare Industry for its resource management activities. The data scientist and business intelligence engineers, the main users, can use this data to build their models and predict the spread/rise in cases. 
 
The requirements for the cloud infrastructure is firstly to build a cloud solution architecture for a data engineering solution using Microsoft Azure Data Resources. A few of these resources include Azure Data Factory (ADF), Azure Data Lake Gen2, Azure Blob Storage, Azure SQL Database, and Azure Databricks. The data source will come directly from the ECDC COVID-19 data in the form of a csv file which will then be used to create an ELT package. Data visualizations will be done on Power BI to depict the positivity rate in each country, the rise in number of cases in each country, death to positivity ratio and occupancy in hospitals. Therefore, the cloud ELT solution will be used as a type of data management system that is used for analytical purposes and supporting business intelligence activities. 
 
